Nextcloud linux integration ```master``` (#523)
Start9Labs/documentation: site/source/guides/service-guides/nextcloud/nextcloud-setup/nextcloud-linux.rst

--------------------
Many Linux distributions ship with a Desktop Environment (DE) that supports Nextcloud account integration directly for use with their built-in calendars and other applications.  It is recommended to try these first for the best possible experience with your particular flavor of Linux.

> You will first need to :ref:`add your Root CA to your system<lan-linux>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will first need to :ref:`trust your Root CA<ca-linux>`.
```

`ca-linux` is the correct ref link for v035 and up docs

    - KDE
    - Budgie

The following guide uses Ubuntu as an example.

1. Open settings app.

  .. figure:: /_static/images/nextcloud/nextcloud-linux-1.png
    :width: 60%
    :alt: open settings app
    
2. Go to Online Accounts and click on **Nextcloud**.

  .. figure:: /_static/images/nextcloud/nextcloud-linux-2.png
    :width: 60%
    :alt: online accounts settings

> 3. Type in the server path from **startOS > Nextcloud > Interfaces** and username and password from **startOS > Nextcloud > Properties**, and click **Connect**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Paste in the server path from **StartOS > Nextcloud > Interfaces** and the username and password from **StartOS > Nextcloud > Properties**, and click **Connect**.
```

  .. figure:: /_static/images/nextcloud/nextcloud-linux-3.png
    :width: 60%
    :alt: enter nextcloud credentials

4. Choose which services you want to integrate and close **Nextcloud Account** window.

  .. figure:: /_static/images/nextcloud/nextcloud-linux-4.png
    :width: 60%
    :alt: nextcloud account services

5. Open the file manager, and you should see your NextCloud account in the side panel.

  .. figure:: /_static/images/nextcloud/nextcloud-linux-5.png
    :width: 60%
    :alt: nextcloud in file manager

> To explore alternative distros beyond this guide, visit this link. `Linuxhint guide <https://linuxhint.com/linux_file_managers_nextcloud/>`_ and our `Nextcloud Master Thread <https://community.start9.com/t/nextcloud-master-thread/>`_.  Please share your feedback - it is very valuable to our community!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To setup other Linux distributions, check out this `Linuxhint guide <https://linuxhint.com/linux_file_managers_nextcloud/>`_ and our `Nextcloud Master Thread <https://community.start9.com/t/nextcloud-master-thread/>`_.  Please share your feedback - it is very valuable to our community!
```

Standalone Clients
------------------
For those that prefer to use a desktop client or your desktop environment does not support account integrations.

> .. note:: The desktop version of NextCloud doesn't have much of a user interface.  Once installed, it solely lives in the top right hand corner of the desktop in the navbar. When it's synced, the icon turns into a checkmark with a circle around it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: The desktop version of NextCloud doesn't have much of a user interface.  Once installed, it solely lives in the your system tray or navigation bar.  You can click on this icon to access the app.
```

File Syncing - Nextcloud Desktop
================================
This is Nextcloud's official client application for file syncing and account management.  It is available in your favorite package manager (usually as `nextcloud`).  You can also see this `full list of available packages <https://help.nextcloud.com/t/linux-packages-status/>`_.   or you can get the latest version as an AppImage from the `Download for Desktop <https://nextcloud.com/install/#install-clients>`_ section of Nextcloud's website.

LAN Setup
.........

> Make sure you have first set up :ref:`LAN access<lan-linux>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you have first :ref:`trusted your Root CA<ca-linux>`.
```

  .. figure:: /_static/images/nextcloud/nextcloud-linux-desktop-2.png
    :width: 60%
    :alt: nextcloud server path

4. This will launch a page in your web browser, click **Log In** and then **Grant access** to link the desktop client. You can close this browser window afterwards.

  .. figure:: /_static/images/nextcloud/nextcloud-mac-step5.png
    :width: 60%
    :alt: nextcloud login and grant access

5. Next, configure the local directory that you want to sync with Nextcloud. You may use the default or change it, and edit the sync settings to desired. When satisfied, click **Connect**.

  .. figure:: /_static/images/nextcloud/nextcloud-linux-desktop-3.png
    :width: 60%
    :alt: nextcloud add account

6. Files will begin to sync immediately and you will see a green check when this is complete.

  .. figure:: /_static/images/nextcloud/nextcloud-linux-desktop-5.png
    :width: 60%
    :alt: nextcloud sync

7.  That's it! From this desktop client you will recieve notifications, control accounts and syncing, and quickly access your Apps' WebUI pages

Tor Setup
.........
You will first need to have the :ref:`Tor daemon running<tor-linux>`.

> 1. On your desktop application. Click the account in the top left > Settings, then click Network. Choose **Specify proxy manually as** and **SOCKS5 proxy**. Enter **127.0.0.1** for the Host and **9050** for the port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On your desktop application. Click the account avatar in the top left > Settings, then click Network. Choose **Specify proxy manually as** and **SOCKS5 proxy**. Enter **127.0.0.1** for the Host and **9050** for the port.
```

  .. figure:: /_static/images/nextcloud/nextcloud-linux-tor-1.png
    :width: 60%
    :alt: nextcloud network settings

2. Close the Settings screen and click the account in the top left again, then **Add Account**.

  .. figure:: /_static/images/nextcloud/nextcloud-linux-tor-2.png
    :width: 60%
    :alt: nextcloud add account

> 3. On the following screen, click **Log in your Nextcloud**, then enter your Nextcloud Tor server address, which you can copy from the Nextcloud page on your **startOS > Interfaces > Tor**. This must start with **`http://`** and end with **`.onion`**. Click **Next**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. On the following screen, click **Log in your Nextcloud**, then enter your Nextcloud Tor server address, which you can copy from the Nextcloud page on your **StartOS > Interfaces > Tor**. This must start with **`http://`** and end with **`.onion`**. Click **Next**.
```

> 3. On the following screen, click **Log in your Nextcloud**, then enter your Nextcloud Tor server address, which you can copy from the Nextcloud page on your **startOS > Interfaces > Tor**. This must start with **`http://`** and end with **`.onion`**. Click **Next**.

Reviewer: Did you test this with https by chance?  This is preferred if it works

Author: Will test it and correct.

  .. figure:: /_static/images/nextcloud/nextcloud-linux-desktop-1.png
    :width: 60%
    :alt: nextcloud server path

  .. figure:: /_static/images/nextcloud/nextcloud-linux-tor-3.png
    :width: 60%
    :alt: nextcloud add account

4. This will launch your browser and prompt you to log in to your account. Log in and then grant access as we did for LAN.

> 5. That's it! You may wish to set up some select folders for remote sync, but for large files, it is best to sync on LAN only, so you can "Skip folders configuration" on the resulting screen if you wish. Check your connection by clicking the newly created account in the client app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. That's it! You can set up some select folders for remote sync, but for large files, it is best to sync on LAN only. Check your connection by clicking the newly created account in the client app.
```
